---
title: "Will you ask a Kid's grade in School?"
layout: post
category: blogs
---

Disclaimer: This is my very first post ever and the views expressed here are my own. Feel free to reach out to me for a chat. :)

If you didn't know already, Indian parents often expect good grades from their children. However, my dad had a different approach. He would only ask me which class I was in because he often forgot. Looking back, my high-school days were some of the best moments in my life. I realized later on that having the luxury of playing outdoor games for three hours every day is something many kids in India don't have anymore. The valuable lessons I learned in school were the interests I developed and the joy of playing outside. I'm grateful that I didn't have to sacrifice my playtime for intense coaching to get into prestigious institutions like IIT. Unfortunately, we were never educated about the various career paths available beyond engineering and medicine. It's quite absurd, isn't it? One had to rely on relatives or friends to learn about different career prospects. I strongly believe that students in the 10th standard should have guest lectures from professionals in various fields to broaden their horizons. At least then, they would have something to think about.

Sadly, the 11th and 12th grades are some of the most challenging years for students in India. These two years took a toll on my health more than any other time in my life, but they did help me secure admission to a decent college. Was the suffering worth it? Definitely not. Pursuing engineering is just one of the many options available. Many students choose engineering because it has the potential for higher pay. I hope that more people from my generation will start new companies, creating more opportunities for future generations.

To illustrate, let me compare my internship experiences at Honeywell in Bangalore and Varex Imaging in SLC, USA. At Honeywell, all the interns, including myself, were in some engineering domain. Honeywell is known as one of the best electronic product design companies in Bangalore. Although we were assigned unique roles, if you look at the bigger picture, most of us were doing service-related work. We were providing support to overseas companies, but the conceptualization, design, and leadership were not in our hands. On the other hand, at Varex, they hired a diverse group of interns, with less than half of them being engineers. The rest came from finance, accounting, marketing, sales, and strategy backgrounds. Even the engineers at Varex had design roles, and they were passionate about their work. Their success was not based on cheating in exams, paying for college admissions, or using agencies to write their letters of recommendation and statements of purpose. And interestingly, both engineers and non-engineers were paid equally.

Do you see the difference? Having the headquarters in our own country gives us better positions and opportunities. It also allows students who may not excel academically to explore other roles they may be naturally good at. So, the next time you want to inspire your younger cousin, tell them how cool it is to be an entrepreneur. There's a chance they might take up that adventure.

I have the utmost respect for people who start new companies in India. Considering the hardships they face and the sacrifices they make, the impact they have on the people around them is significant.

Final thoughts - If we start thinking differently about education and put in more effort, we have the potential to make a significant difference in our society. Grades are just a small part of a child's performance. Instead of asking for grades, try to understand the child's abilities and interests. Test their ability to grasp concepts or support and nurture their natural talents if you can identify them.
